---
layout: post
title: Data Encyption
subtitle: Unit 1
date: 2020-01-05 15:12:54 +0530
categories: dens
permalink: /:categories/article/:title
---



# Cryptography

Cryptography is a method of protecting information and communications through the use of codes so that only those for whom the information is intended can read and process it. It is a science of making ciphers or algorithms.
<br>
Cryptanalytics is a science of Breaking Cipher. Cryptography & Cryptanalytics together is known as Cryptology.
<br>
These Algorithm are published in public domain. It also relies on secret piece of information called as `key`

Cryptographic algorithms has to achieve

<h3>
  <li> Confidentiality </li>
</h3>
<p>
  It assures that confidential information is not disclosed to unauthorized individuals. It is also related to storage & Transmission of Information.
  For Example :
  <ul>Military - It used for the Concealment of sensitive Information</ul>
  <ul>Industry - Hiding critical information from competitors</ul>
  <ul>Banking - Customer accounts needs to be kept secured incase of unauthorised access</ul>
</p>

<h3>
  <li> Integrity </li>
</h3>
<p>
  Information to be communicated keeps changing. This change should be made by authorised users only
  <li> To ensure integrity of data</li>
  <li> Prevent modification</li>
  <li> Detect any modification made</li>
</p>

<h3>
  <li> Availability </li>
</h3>
<p>
  Confidentiality and integrity should not hinder availability of data. It should be noted that
  <li>Service is not denied to authorized users</li>
  <li>Cryptographic mechanism cause overhead</li>
  <li>Therefore fast mechanism should be used so that systems work promptly</li>
</p>

<hr>

Cryptography can also do things like

<li> <strong>Digital Signatures</strong> - Function of Content of Document</li>
<li><strong>Anonymous Communication</strong> - Communication uses proxies. Identity of the user is encrypted</li>

<br><br><br>

